API
===

API stands for Application Programming Interface. The kind of API we will cover in this section is going to be Web APIs. Web APIs are the defined interfaces through which interactions happen between an enterprise and applications that use its assets, which also is a Service Level Agreement (SLA) to specify the functional provider and expose the service path or URL for its API users.

In the context of web development, an API is defined as a set of specifications, such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request messages, along with a definition of the structure of response messages, usually in an XML or a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format.

Web API has been moving away from Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based web services and service-oriented architecture (SOA) towards more direct representational state transfer (REST) style web resources.

Social media services, web APIs have allowed web communities to share content and data between communities and different platforms.

Using API, content that is created in one place dynamically can be posted and updated to multiple locations on the web.

For example, Twitter's REST API allows developers to access core Twitter data and the Search API provides methods for developers to interact with Twitter Search and trends data.


Building API
============
RESTful API is an application program interface (API) that uses HTTP requests to GET, PUT, POST and DELETE data. In the previous sections, we have learned about python, flask and mongoDB. We will use the knowledge we acquire to develop a RESTful API using Python flask and mongoDB database. Every application which has CRUD(Create, Read, Update, Delete) operation has an API to create data, to get data, to update data or to delete data from a database.

To build an API, it is good to understand HTTP protocol and HTTP request and response cycle.

HTTP(Hypertext Transfer Protocol)
HTTP is an established communication protocol between a client and a server. A client in this case is a browser and server is the place where you access data. HTTP is a network protocol used to deliver resources which could be files on the World Wide Web, whether they are HTML files, image files, query results, scripts, or other file types.

A browser is an HTTP client because it sends requests to an HTTP server (Web server), which then sends responses back to the client.

Request Methods
The GET, POST, PUT and DELETE are the HTTP request methods which we are going to implement an API or a CRUD operation application.

GET: GET method is used to retrieve and get information from the given server using a given URI. Requests using GET should only retrieve data and should have no other effect on the data.

POST: POST request is used to create data and send data to the server, for example, creating a new post, file upload, etc. using HTML forms.

PUT: Replaces all current representations of the target resource with the uploaded content and we use it modify or update data.

DELETE: Removes data


